cold cooling is it dead or is it alive
I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business Grove show
and if you want actionable website B2B
marketing tips podcasts goodies and more
check out my weekly email at
businessgrowth dot email so today I
wanted to test it for myself there's so
much talk on LinkedIn other social
channels that cold calling is a waste of
time that you shouldn't do it that it's
not effective for B2B marketing or sales
so I like to experiment with different
channels most months I thought I'd give
it a go myself I call into a B2B tech
company turning over millions to see if
I could generate an appointment here's
how it goes
hello good morning
who's this oh hi
I'm probably gonna hate me actually it
was a ice cold cool
oh what's the regarding yes just wonder
if you wanted to hang up or let me have
30 seconds and then decide yeah I know
take seconds it's fine cheers do I I'll
often speak to revenue or marketing
leaders like yourself
and yeah they'll share with me they've
got a great offer but sometimes a little
frustrated because when potential
clients searching on Google for your
services sometimes competitors are above
you so they're stealing traffic or
opportunity to your website
or maybe you already do some SEO and
some paid search but you feel like your
website might not be converting those
hard-earned visitors into a steady
stream of sales Ops for the team
or perhaps you're dabbling a bit of both
but the agency that you partner with to
help you feel might not be delivering on
some of their initial promises
but kind of get the feeling to tell me
none of that applies to your world
well no it's not so much that it's uh in
terms of where we are in our
um marketing has only really become an
independent business function over the
last year
um so we've got a kind of road map of
areas of focus
um and currently although we are
finalizing some of the details for the
next financial year in terms of planning
but currently uh SEO website stuff is
reasonably loaded in the ranking most of
where we generate revenue and to be
honest in terms of where our Market is
um how competitive you can realistically
be with SEO
um without a Monumental budget
um is kind of a little bit self-limiting
um so it's it's definitely not something
that we don't have those challenges it's
just in terms of like the priority of
the challenges that we're dealing with
how we're approaching them it's not a
massively high priority Force at the
moment
I see that's that's fair what would you
say is more of a priority well we're
working a lot on
um
so kind of direct Outreach
um so don't you know
play semi-traditional telemarketing
um
LinkedIn activity uh email campaigns
those sorts of things
um and uh content Generation
Um
because as that having any really kind
of started to flesh out marketing
function within the business over the
last year
um we are in a position where we need to
get a solid granny of core content and
sporting materials around service offers
and things like that
um rather than kind of taking what we've
been traditionally a bit more of an ad
hoc
um
approach within the sales team so
um those are as you can imagine at least
some usable pieces of work
um we we have got
um a website well frankly website
complete redesign is on the cards at
some point that will probably happen in
the next financial year although I'm not
sure quite when in the next financial
year yet
um so until we've kind of got that
sorted
um SEO if I you know I've worked in this
industry for
10 years a little bit longer
um
is hyper competitive we're
right so
it's boom industry time and there are
some of the players with massive budgets
and having run some SEO stuff in the
past anything that was of like
significant interested it tended to be
very expensive quite quickly unless you
were running very kind of limited
budgets for skimming off the top and to
be honest
I reached the conclusion having run
through it before that unless you have
the budget to allocate to it it doesn't
seem to generate really an awful lot of
anything
um
just because of it being almost
impossible to stand out from the crowd
in that regard
um and it's not something that I think
people
the buyers that we talk to tend to kind
of go to Google for
um tends to be more relationship-led
because we're talking to
you know C C team
decision makers and budget holders and
stuff like that
um rather than it's not a
um commodity type offering
yeah I understand that I get that for
sure
it's um I don't think it's one of those
products where people just or Services
people just wake up and decide they're
going to invest a significant amount
into
no no I'll sales cycle is like 18 months
to two years so yeah no that makes sense
well it sounds like you've like you say
you've only recently the last year or so
built out the marketing function is that
because a lot of work just come kind of
word of mouth referral up to now or
I mean yeah we've worked very well on
referral and sales team-led so okay
um
kind of direct Outreach I mean you can
you could kind of look at it in a way in
terms of there's been a very
spearfishing approach within the sales
team that's kind of like covered
Baseline marketing activity but
obviously you reach scalability issues
with that you want new sales people
selling rather than prospecting yeah um
and we're going through like very
substantial growth
um so marketing is obviously high on the
list of things that we needed to develop
um as a more fully fledged function you
can ask where you're calling from oh
sorry my name's Sam and it's web choice
okay so no I mean from what you've
shared
weirdly enough I work with quite a lot
of not so
but quite a lot of SAS and Tech B2B
companies yeah and especially funded
ones or Venture funded ones that have
been very heavy on outbound
um following a traditional model a bit
like you said like spear fishing idle
fit clients and starting conversations
with them over the phone or email but
like I'm doing now and like you said
eventually they reach a point where they
think well we've we've got us we've hit
our cap on revenue for this
now we need some work coming inbound
whether that is organic search SEO paid
search
or also optimizing the website and to
make sure that both
inbound prospects convert effectively
and anyone that comes outbound actually
gets builds trust when they visit the
website
um and actually gets a good impression
of your company and is still encouraged
to keep in touch those tend to be the
pain points we fix
um sounds like you might have a website
redesign on the cards as well so I'm not
sure if you've got a vendor sorted for
that
we haven't we've had a couple of
conversations and it's kind of why I
wanted to get if I give you my dad like
I'm not going to have anything in the
next six months into well so we're
further into December
um kind of uh before before the end of
March I'm probably not gonna have
anything meaningful in terms of looking
at a website in terms of timelines
because it'll be nailing down the budget
end of financial year
um but if that's an area that you do
have some work like like expertise in
yeah um if you if you wanted to bung me
over an email
um with your contacts and then like kind
of get back in touch say uh early April
um I'd be very interested in talking
about that because whilst we're not
looking at
as I said SEO and stuff like that in the
short more even necessarily kind of near
medium term yeah I would like to make
sure we are
building from a foundation that allows
us to support what we want to do with
the minimum fuss and the Maximum Impact
further down the line so having
something that has taken those things
into consideration already would be
worthwhile
um
so yeah it would be definitely worth
I'll be interested to hear thoughts and
kind of approach and stuff that he now
is not necessarily at the time so if I
give you my email and you want to get in
like proper still just like drop one
over now but if you then want to get
back in touch early April then there
might be a more kind of substantive kind
of conversation to have yeah sounds good
to me
cool so it's
cool yeah you're happy to
happy to send an email across and give
you a quick snapshot of the company some
of our work and such like that
um sounds like budget's probably not
going to open until April time
um yeah I mean our internal
um budget processes tend to we we have a
couple of layers of approval so
um it's more a case of not having
certainty until then and um being a
great believer in minimum effort maximum
amount I don't want to spend too much
time focus on something until I know
I've got a budget for it
um so it by then I will
um and I'll also have an idea on
timeline around
well in the next financial year we'll be
looking at website and stuff like that
so
um that would be a good time to chance
yeah no probs um just mainly because
I've got a terrible memory more than
anything
would you be horribly against me putting
something on the calendar gonna Maybe
early April like the Friday the 7th or
something like that no go for it that's
fine
yeah uh well I'm trying to remember when
I'm because I've got some leave early
April
um
when's Easter
good question uh Easter Monday is the
10th of April it looks like
okay
um
so I would probably go for
uh true
Tuesday the 4th afternoon Tuesday fourth
yeah sure Tuesday fourth about 2PM yeah
that works
CPM April yeah cool I'll um I'll pop you
a message after this call just so you've
got my info and give you some examples
of the similar clients we've helped and
then uh yeah I'll put that invite for
Tuesday 4th of April at 2PM and yeah
and yeah I think that's pretty much it
no no that's good it should be good to
have a catch up and kind of understand
things in a little bit more detail now
at the time sure um oh just one last
thing you're not gonna hang up and think
oh god I've agreed to to meet with
someone I've met over a cold cool are
you
um no no I mean I'm assuming we would
just do a call that's fine
um
like whenever in April that's that's
fine I'm
I'm my other half is sales so uh okay
yeah
yeah that's that sounds good I'll get
that invite across I come from Sam at
web Choice and then we'll we'll catch up
then fantastic all right Sam have a
great Christmas New Year in the meantime
we look forward to catching up with you
uh in the spring yeah same to you winter
is coming cheers
yeah cheers take care bye-bye bye
and there you have it if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick subscribe is
much appreciated and with that I'll
catch you on the next one cheers